Google Software Engineer Interview Questions:
“atoi (phone interview)”
“Design a system or algorithm to catalog all of the worlds books?”
“Find the balance point in an array. (The index where the sum of the elements to the left it is the same as the sum of the elements to the right of it.)”
“Write a function in which ever language you prefer that would give an automated solution for the game sudoko”
“search a value at a binary search tree and then search the closest value if the target value is not in the tree.”
“differences between hash table and binary search tree.And the disadvantages and advantages of both.”
“binary tree, from right to left”
“I was given a number of intervals on the integer number line and had to write a program in Java that takes two sets of intervals and creates a set of intervals that combines them.”
“How to merge twe sorted arrays into a new sorted one?”
“Text parsing problem, but not very well specified. Expected to create detailed specification and to solve problem.”
“Signed an NDA so I'll respect that”
“Algorithms, complexity analysis, CS basics, thinking on your feet, whiteboard coding. Know your stuff.”
“What data structures would you use to model a family tree?How can you determine whether two persons are related or not?”
“How would you contribute to the day to day company function?”
“Select K largest numbers from N”
“Implement an interface to statistics the frequency of new value added.”
“Implement a function boolean matches(String text, String pattern) to find match pattern in the string, pattern can be seperated but the order of letters in pattern cannot be changed.”
“Given an unsorted array of integers, find a 3-element subset that sums to zero”
“textbook algorithms questions”
“Data structures, algorithms, and OOP.”
“Make an algorithm to extract the skyline from the rectangles.”
“What is your research topic and how is it related to Google products?”
“Basic data structure and software design questions”
“Estimate the total storage size of GMAIL”
“Write a function to return the longest common prefix between two strings.”
“Redefine a function (signature given) to write data to a new replacement for an antiquated database (which you previously designed)”
“String replacement coding in Java.”
“Implement a system to serialize and deserialize strings”
“Implement a blocking queue in Java.”
“Desing a 4-way software cache driver.”
“2. favorite sorting algorithm and why, advantages”
“1. Compare HashTable and Binary Tree(pros and cons, why use binary tree in some place, the time complexity of insert, delete of hashtable and binarytree)”
“Find the intersection of two integer lists”
“We have a schedular. Timer is available to the schedular. The clients of this schedular want to call this schedular with 2 parameters, 1) time interval in ms 2) callback function. The schedular will invoke specified callback function after specified time intevals. Design data structure and implement it.”
“algorithm of graphic theory”
“I cannot disclose technical questions.”
“describe breadth first search”
“describe the recent project you have done.”
“If you have an unsorted array of numbers from 1-100, except 1 of those numbers is missing, how do you determine which number is missing”
“Items are pushed onto a stack, and therefore may be accessed in a last-in-first-out (LIFO) manner.  How might you access these items in a first-in-first-out (FIFO) manner?”
“Why do you want to work with this company”
“Signed an NDA which I'll respect.”
“How do you implement a hash?”
“What was the hardest problem you've ever solved and how?”
“What is the biggest bug in your previous code”
“Write an algorithm for integer multiplication”
“basically code prims algorithm”
“if we had a list of n nodes, what are the maximum number of edges there can be for a directed acyclic graph?”
“Given a set of intervals(time in seconds) find the set of intervals that overlap”
“Some tricky part of hashmap”
“Remove duplicate lines from an large text.”
“Both: Big-O analysis, optimize, design test cases”
“Onsite: binary search trees, string manipulation, designing a cache, recursion”
“Phone: resume, custom queue data structure, list manipulation in Python, SQL, couple other short questions (no code)”
“What's the difference between finally, final and finalize in Java?”
“Given a string, find the minimum window containing a given set of characters.”
“Can an abstract class be instantiated in Java? And does it have a constructor?”
“Delete an element from a singly linked list in Java”
“design an algorithm to check if there are overlaps between a group of intervals”
“Implement 'memcpy()' in C”
“why do you want to work at Google”
“Questions related to probability and statistics.”
“what can you do to improve Google search engine?”
“How do you design a high-write, high-read database.”
“Out of 10 coins, one weighs less then the others. You have a scale.How can you determine which one weighs less in 3 weighs?Now how would you do it if you didn't know if the odd coin weighs less or more?”
“Given a list of integers that fall within a known short but unknown range of values, how to find the median value?”
“Code an application that creates a new thread and exposes a "ping()" method. Whenever ping() is called, the thread prints "Google rocks" once.”
“onsite interview: implement timers write code as if you are writing them in 1 single for loop in kernel.”
“Based on data structures and algorithms. Can't post the original questions as I signed NDA with them.”
“Same as above but another one is taken out again. Find the two missing nubmers”
“Array of 100 integers from 1 to 100, shuffled. One integer is taken out, find that integer.”
“Explain how quick sort and merge sort work”
“Some areas they will definitely touch -- OOP, strings, and data structures”
“What is the biggest software project that you have worked on and how.”
“Questions about algorithms and data structures.”
“data structures and array manipulation questions.”
“Given inputs from Google Search, you have K chunks.  Each chunk is individually alphabetically ordered (apple, banana, cat) ... (*apple, *banan, *cat).  You want to merge all chunks into a single list.  How would you do it?  What limitations are there to your approach?It's on an x86 processor, what does that mean and how does that affect your approach?”
“Judge if a Sudoku solution is right.”
“How to find the max number of a shift buffer queue. For instance, there is an array like 5, 6,8,11,1,2, how to find the max number, which is 11 in this example.”
“How long have you waited for us to contact you?”
“Addition of 2 big numbers (represented by 2 int arrays, assuming each integer can only be 0-9)”
“Write a program to compute if one string is a rotation of another.”
“Given a set of strings, a number 'n', and a function that takes a string and gives back a score, find the n largest scored strings in the set.”
“Given the daily values of a stock, find how you can lose the most with one buy-sell trading.”
“Given two sorted integer arrays, write an algorithm to get back the intersection.”
“Given a matrix of 0s and 1s, write code to get all the different ways of getting from a given cell to another, such that you can't walk through any of the cells with 0s in them.”
“Trees, hashing, sorting, recursion. Nothing particularly hard.”
“Describe what you will do to enhance the indexing performance of the map service.”
“I can't really tell about the question, but they vary between different problem solving questions like trees, string manipulations and complex recursion.”
“Eliminate replicates in a string”
“Reverse all the words in a string”
“Quad tree”
“Analyze quick sort.”
“Write the binary search.”
“typical CS interview questions, as listed above”
“create an algorithm for a problem, optimize it, O - notation”
“I won't disclose those questions due to NDA but I'm gonna tell you they were not difficult. Just show yourself. Maybe you can find those questions on glassdoor, I'm not sure. I've gone through the first 15 pages but I did not find any match.”
“You have a n number of cities. Lets say city 1 has some information that needs to be sent to all other n-1 cities using minimal cost. Cost between each pair of cities is given. any number of cities can transmit the information once they receive the information but the overall total cost should be minimum”
“Game of Life - write a function to calculate next state of the board based on current state”
“Given an array of structs: write a function that finds equal values in all the structs in the array”
“Write a function to modify a singly linked list, appending copies of the first N-1 elements to the end in reverse order.  For example, ['A', 'B', 'C', 'D'] becomes ['A', 'B', 'C', 'D', 'C', 'B', 'A'].”
“Given a a new dictionary of words in English alphabets but the ordering of the alphabets are not necessarily as the English alphabets, that is, say c comes a in the new alphabet series. Hence, the dictionary would also contain words in a different ordering than the usual dictionary. If you are given enough words in this new dictionary so that you can find enough relationships between the new series, find the new series.”
“Describe your research background.”
“AVL tree”
“explain binary search, running time, when is it advantageous”
“Implementing a system for fast anagrams retrieval given a large file of words”
“If you have a ransom letter and magazines, can you construct the ransom letter from the words in the magazine.”
“Given two numbers m and n, write a method to return the first number r that is divisible by both (e.g., the least common multiple).”
“How would you design and develop a URL shorting service”
“write a program to translate alphanumeric phone number to numbers only”
“difference between get and post in forms.”
“what happens when you type: google.com in the browser”
“Write a code to find out if two string words are anagrams”
“you have a sorted array of real numbers drawn from the uniform distribution between 0 and 1.  How can you  quickly find a number in it?This was the last question.  They had me implement it on my own and send it back to them.”
“how would you find the shortest path between two nodes in a social network?”
“how would you implement a web search engine?”
“Write this function (on a Google doc):/*How many ways can you make change given the following denominations?  ie, if numCentsToMake is 6 and denominations is [25, 10, 5, 1], then it should return 2: either a nickel and a penny or 6 pennies.*/int numWaysToMakeChange(int numCentsToMake, int[] denominations)”
“"Please define these random Object Oriented Programming terms"”
“Design a database system for a global company like KFC”
“Create a graph class and graph traversal algorithms.”
“Describe inheritance, virtual, etc. in C++Would you use threads or processes in this situation? Why?Write an algorithm that...”
“What is the data structure behind hashmap”
“how do you install packages in linux”
“LRU-cache”
“Maximum contiguous sub sequence sum problem.”
“what is the best way to sort millions of records”
“find the median of million rows in each of the 1000 servers.”
“Find the most frequent letters in a string.”
“How would you reverse a linked-list?”
“How to find anagrams in a sentence ?”
“Google asked that I did not review any specific of the questions asked.”
“theory of NP problems”
“What's the complexity of insert in hashtable ?”
“What are the side effects of typing your password in the user name field?”
“Deep search binary tree, what is the worst case memory requirement using Queue.”
“Here's a situation involving gym lockers that I've been wondering about.  What do you think of it?”
“Write a short method to perform a simple, common operation.  Now tell me what could go wrong.  How would you fix it?”
“Here a situation and some code, what to you think about that?”
“Design an algorithm to do X, then analyse the complexity.”
“Card game, given 4 cards. If by +,-,/,* and () you can make 24, you win. Write a program to play this game.”
“Discuss data structures for reading URL->File content (crawler data e.g.) and remove duplicates.Find a number in a sorted array with duplicates in O(log n) time.”
“Find the longest word in a dictionary, such that the word can be built one character at a time, and all substrings are words in the dictionary. A new character can be added anywhere.”
“Priority inversion, and how to solve it.Develop an iterator (has_next, next).”
“Given a graph, find if it represents a tree.”
“implement an recursive data structure: quadtree”
“How would you determine if someone has won a game of tic-tac-toe on a board of any size?”
“Fibonacci numbers... haha.”
“Probably shouldn't disclose the first interview question as they made me sign an agreement and the first question was unique from anything I have seen as an interview question. This was a question that would not have been able to have been completed within the 45 min.”
“Given an array of numbers, there is one number that has a duplicate. How would you find the number?”
“Given a large web query log file, how to find the most frequent K queries”
“Design a networked 'snake' multiplayer game. What are the problems and issues to be solved? When the network 'splits' I want the game to continue for all players.”
“Given a string of characters, find the character with the highest frequency.”
“implement dijkstras algorithm”
“Design something.”
“(they asked that we keep the interview questions confidential, and I will respect that)”
“u have a thick client application i.e. swings. two users are working on the app. one of them wants to update name field where as the other one wants to update company name.until the users are trying to update different field , they should be allowed to do that . when both are trying to modify the same field, one of them should be notified and the updated value should appear.”
“you have a file which contains no. from 100 to 999999999, but some nos. are missing. how would you find the missing nos.?- loading the whole file or keeping the file open for long time isn't desirable.”
“how would you validate an xml?”
“Given a bitmap of open and closed cells, where you can traverse through open cells but not closed ones and a set of origin points on the bitmap, write a program to find the shortest path to every reachable open cell from any of the origin points.”
“Write a function to convert a collection of strings into a single string and a function to convert it back.”
“Describe a data structure of your choice.  (I chose a hash table)  Followed up with questions about collision, Big O time of various operations.”
“Find the largest 100 numbers out of a list of a trillion unsorted numbers”
“algorithm”
“Multitask”
“Provide a parser for a given regular language.”
“Write a function to caculate the angle between hour and minute hand on a clock.”
“Implement a stack that pops out the most frequently added item.”
“different types of sorting”
“Write a function to perform incremental search”
“Convert string to integer like atoi in C”
“Subset of all sets using bit arithematic.”
“Given an unsorted array of integers, find first two numbers in the array that equal a given sum.”
“Quickly estimate 2^64 without using a pen/papar.”
“Comparisons of trees and hash tables.What are the tradeoffs of using one versus another.”
“You have a 64bit interger counter set to 0. How long it will take to overflow the counter given that you are incrementing it at 4Ghz speed.”
“How to add a counter to www.google.com to track the billionth user.”
“C++ versus Java.Reverse a singly lined list.”
“some bit manipulation question”
“merge sort”
“Computing average power in last 5 minutes”
“B tree”
“Serialize an array of integers in an arbitrary way.  Imagine a 4x4 grid where the cells are visited in a snakelike pattern.”
“In a sorted array, find the number closest to a given number”
“How do you debug a faulty script”
“bacteria multiply 2x a day, and on the 50th day, there are 100 bacteria, how many were here on the 48th day.”
“reverse a sentence such that the ordering of words is reversed but the words aren't changed”
“Design the friend suggestion of facebook, write a code, complexity,...”
“All about algorithms mostly.  They like to see how you think things through”
“how to find similar trees.”
“You are given a random binary tree      5   /    \  4      9/  \     /  \3  5  6  8Write code to print it out in order level ie54 93 5 6 8The tree need not be balanced. Write all the datastructures for the tree and make sure that you print newlines after each level.Also write test cases to test your code.”
“You are given an function which converts a string like "I work at Google" to "Google at work I". Write all the test cases you can think of for testing such a function.”
“Can you draw the HW block diagram of your latest project and explain ?”
“I was asked not to explicitly talk about the interview questions, but they involved live coding into a google doc and discussing the big O complexity of the algorithms used.”
“Write a function that will return the second longest string in a list of strings. You have to do a single pass on the list.”
“Describe what happens when a user clicks a link in a browser.”
“Please design a iterator class.”
“questions about tree and hash table”
“Write a semaphore with spin-lock capability”
“Data Structure and Algorithm related questions.”
“One of the question was encoding/decoding of BST problem which I haven't seen any other web interview web sites. I don't even remember other questions since I was extremely stressed out in the phone interviews since one of the two interviewers was quite aggressive. But the other interviewer was much better. They already know all the recent interview questions posted on the web sites, and do not ask such questions.”
“Not allowed to disclose by NDA.”
“Design an RPC protocol.”
“Design Google news.”
“OS and compiler-related stuff.”
“BFS, DFS, and interval trees”
“A simple BigData question.”
“A BST question.”
“A string manipulation question.”
“What guarantees does the synchronized keyword give when used on a method? When a thread calls the synchronized method, can another thread call a method that isn't synchronized on the same object?”
“Explain pointer arithmetic”
“How does the garbage collector in the JVM work and how does it reclaim orphaned objects?”
“What subclasses of Collection do you know”
“Describe a technical problem that you solved.”
“print binary tree in level order”
“code game of life”
“related to data structures and design questions”
“describe the issues involved in moving a database from one platform to another. assume very high transaction volume.  how would you do this without disrupting applications modifying data or degrading system performance.”
“Interviewer 2. How would you generate a stream of random numbers? Optimize for space.”
“Given a bunch of N random points in space, how would you draw a line such that N/2 of them were to the left of the line and N/2 to the right of it. Complexity”
“List out all the data structures you know”
“Given a list of integers, find 3 numbers that add up to a given number. ie, find a,b,c,d such that a+b+c=d”
“sort integer array in linear time”
“They made me promise not to tell.  There were questions about thread-safety, computational complexity, and dynamic programming.  Also other questions.”
“What type of binding is used in C++. Is the only type used ?”
“Interviewer ask me to solve some permutation related problems.1)  Algorithm to get Index of a permutation when all permutations arranged in  lexicographical order and its complexity”
“Google asks interviewees to not share specific details on interview questions.  They were coding-oriented questions.   They required a varied set of algorithms and data structures to solve, especially including graphs, heaps, linked lists, and hash tables.  Sorting algorithms were also emphasized.  Some of the interview questions were quite unique, but could be abstracted in neat ways.Google does provide a significant amount of material before the interview(s) to help you study, including links to reading material and the types of questions you can expect.They were relatively difficult, but the interviewers were helpful.”
“Given a list of integers of at least length 7, print the average of each consecutive 7 number long subsequence (sliding window).”
“Given a list of generic items, describe/code the approach would you take to finding the most common item.”
“Given a base 10 number, print the hexidecimal (base 16) representation of that number.”
“On line white board coding so that the interviewer can also see as you code.”
“Describe a method to sift through dozens of emails and rank them based on 'importance'.”
“Discuss and implementation of flattening a binary search tree into string representations.”
“Way back years ago, I was asked to implement the NP-hard 3-set algorithm on the spot.”
“Do you know Newton's Method? Can you write down the formula for that? I just don't prepare in such question so I can't remember the exact formula.”
“How do you find the cube root of a number?”
“Write a function that checks for valid unicode byte sequence. A unicode sequence is encoded as:- first byte contains number of subsequent bytes '1111000' means 4 subsequent data bytes- data bytes start with a '10xxxxxx'”
“Ref to the game, Boggle, given a 3x3 grid of letters represented as a char array, generate all possible word combinations. The legal character sequences are horizontally or vertically adjacent chars. So in [A, B, C; D, E, F; G, H, I], ABCFI is legal but DFH is illegal.”
“What problem you may run into if you want to send one file from one place to another through the internet.”
“When 'top' command shows 30% of CPU time, what does this mean? How to write a program to use only 30% of CPU at all time?”
“Write down the algorithm of a Inorder Tree Traversal.”
“Design me a File System in high level design.”
“Question related to merging two arrays”
“Question related to Fibonacci series”
“You have two programs, A and B.  Each of them takes 1 minute to run separately on a Linux machine, when run on a freshly booted system.  What can you tell me about the two programs if:a) when run together, they take 2 minutes to runb) when run together, they take 1 minute to runc) when run together, they take 30 seconds to run”
“Given a list of integer e.g. (1,2,4,5,6,7,8...)Find a pair with a given sum.”
“Find the common numbers in two text files.”
“Write a function to validate a binary search tree.”
“Why the manhole cover is round?”
“Serialize and deserialize a collection of strings into a single one.”
“Describe what happens when making a google search, specifically with client and server.”
“How many lines of computer code have you written in your lifetime ?”
“print out the powset of a set.  use any programming language you want.”
“operating system related question”
“Note that there are two questions hereQ5) Write a code to print unique words (provided from command line), well some twists with it.Q6) What is the purpose of thread lock (other than synchronization)?”
“Q4) How to calculate Hamming distance between two integers, write code.”
“Q3) While processing quick sort would take O(logn) space constraint, can you explain.”
“Q2) compare quick sort and merge sort in space?”
“Q1) How to skim through 10,000 lines of code to find out any obvious mistakes?”
“Write a function that computes the intersection of two arrays. The arrays are sorted. Then, what if one array is really larger than the other array?”
“data structure questions around graphs and trees but straight forward ones.”
“right a  program- isBinarySearchTree”
“It felt like a stress interview. The interviewer sounded pissed from the start and seemed like he was in no mood for the interview. He called me up and the first thing he said was "I have a coding question for you!". Then, he asked me to write a code for traversing a binary tree. As soon as I had given him the solution. He says that it will be all and slams the phone down. It was one of the weirdest interviews ever. I was surprised on how they were judging, because I did get the code right!!”
“Imagine you are creating a program that can handle multiple requests at a time and respond to them as they come. Define run time, classes, and methods.”
“Find the number of connected components in a Graph.”
“Given a list L of n numbers. Write a function to return true if the sum of any two numbers of L equals to k; false otherwise.”
“questions on the running time of quicksort and selection sort”
“When you are doing "read()" call what it happening under the hood in user space?”
“Input is a 4x4 table with letters. One starts from any of the 16 elements and can move in one step to any of the 8 neighboring cells not visited before (up, down, left, right, up-left, etc, no hyperspace jumps between rows 1 & 4, columns 1 & 4).Every time step is made letter in that cell is added so a word is built as we walk. These generated words are looked up in external dictionary (function to look up in the dictionary is provided, I did not understand significance of this dictionary well) and the goal of the exercise is to output all words generated by all possible table walks and which are contained in the dictionary.”
“How to find a  median in a large file of 64-bit integers”
“Given two large files with 64-bit integers produce file with integers which are present in both files and estimate O(?) complexity of your algorithm.”
“Given two binary search trees, write function which tells if two such trees are the same – (i.e. same info in the nodes, same branching to left and right at every node).”
“Given two strings. remove the letters in order from the first string that are in the second.”
“Having two tree nodes, find a node that is the conman parent”
“Given a list of strings return the substring representing the longest common prefix”
“In one of the questions in the interview they asked me to build a tree iterator for a binary tree”
“how do you find out if there is a cycle in linked list.”
“design patterns. visitors pattern.”
“determine if BST is indeed BST and what's complexity of it?”
“find if long string contains shorter one.”
“what's BST?”
“Create a function which returns the angle of the clock's hour and minute hands.”
“Write code for Fibonacci algorithm (iterative or recursive) and explain what's the performance.”
“Write code for depth first search in a binary tree (iterative or recursive) and explain what's the performance.”
“Describe Hashmap with details.”
“As per the NDA, applicants have to agree not to reveal questions.  However, interviewers will progress rapidly through questions until they find one you don't know, so prepping answers won't help.  Frankly, algorithm trivia is a dumb way to pick employees.”
“explain what's a C# enumerator, write a function to concatenate a list of enumerators and test this function”
“How can you optimize the code written for B+ tree.”
“Implement B+tree.”
“Design a class to serialize / deserialze a graph.”
“Design a class to process a matrix, and it needs to be able to return the average for the elements of arbitrary sub-rectangle inside that matrix, in constant time.”
“Statistical problem about combination.Technical problem about ordering a string according to another string.”
“Behavior question about my previous project”
“For a given maze, how to write a function to check if there's a way rom the top-left grid to bottom-right grid with obstacles in the middle.”
“Find the median of a large set of numbers distributed over several machines in a network.”
“Design the backend for ad-words.”
“Find all (english word) substrings of a given string. (every = every, ever, very)”
“Create a Java method that clones a DAG (Directed Acyclic Graph).”
“Asked questions on anagrams.”
“Asked several questions about analyzing strings (e.g. longest common suffix).”
“Asked a question about set theory. Be able to efficiently compute union, intersection, etc.”
“Asked several questions about graph traversal. BFS and DFS.”
“Write the code to check if graph is bipartite or not?”
“Given a tree and leaf node, write the code to make the leaf node as root of tree.”
“Implement a queue with a limited numer of stacks.”
“Write a stack that keeps track of min and max elements.”
“Write a priority queue<E> with three methods. Insert(E Element, int priority). E Pop(), update(E Element, int new_priority)”
“A gmail user login. How do you store the account information so that it can be retrieved fast?”
“design a cloud that sorts petabytes of numbers. Range of numbers are large. how efficient? Big O running time?”
“Giving a windows size K and an array of size N, find the minimum of each window as it slides through the array.”
“how calculate traveling salesperson problem”
“Write the code for "moving of the robot": there is a "generator" -- each time generate 1/0, when 1 the robot will move up, when 0 will go down, write the function to make the robot move up forever.”
“Was asked to implement a Linked List insertion.”
“Was asked how I would implement division without using division or mod operators. The answer should return in the form quotient r remainder.”
“What is the output of the Linux uptime command? What is the meaning of load average? How is the load average affected by SMP?”
“How do you process a set of log files if you don't have enough memory to do it?”
“Given a set of cities, each with a given population, select randomly a city with a probability that is proportional to the population.”
“Suppose you have a set objects, identified by a unique name. How do you store them so that you can retrieve them easily?”
“Compute all the intersections of two sets of segments in a line.”
“Function for int2str”
“Design the battle ship game”
“Implement a binary tree interator class.”
“Btree traversal”
“Is HTTP stateless?”
“Count bi-grams in a huge collection of documents grouped by source web site.”
“What do you plan to do after college?”
“How would you calculate the number of gas stations needed in the US?”
“Why do you want to work for google?”
“Convert a one dimesional array of Strings containing [a,b,c, d,e ...z] to 2 dimensional array of a2[aa,bb,cc]”
“Which is the toughest SQL code you have ever coded?”
“How will you assign ACLs to users or groups? Theoritical discussion no code required.”
“How would you go about testing a distributed system such as Gmail, before releasing it to the public. How would you simulate realistic server load ?”
“You are climbing a stair case. Each time you can either make 1 step or 2 steps. The staircase has n steps. In how many distinct ways can you climb the staircase ?”
“Implement a fast exponentiation function”
“Perform binary search on a sorted array, of which you don't know the size.”
“We have m slots for ads and n ads, each ads will have different revenue on differnet slot, design an algorithm to find out the best fit (find m ads in n ads and order them so that they can make max money, white board coding) .”
“How would you desgin facebook, use the data struct to show the social network and find out the people that close to you but your relation are stranger (white board coding)”
“Why did you Pick C++ instead of any other dynamic languages out there?”
“Check whether the string is symmetric, how to test your result”
“Find the next larger node and write down code”
“Search smallest value from a tree. What if you have enough memory, how to improve the speed?”
“why google. describe yr short term and long term career goals”
“Describe your work - experience? A job situation you could manage or couldnt handle”
“How to decide the size of a array and what to do if oversize? who to sort and find median?”
“How to find median and insert the BCT? and the complexity of each algorithm.”
“Write a function (with helper functions if needed) called to Excel that takes an excel column value (A,B,C,D…AA,AB,AC,… AAA..) and returns a corresponding integer value (A=1,B=2,… AA=26..).”
“Given a word that consists of two words such as "aman" give all the combination of valid two words. You are given a dictionary to test against.Example: aman--> a man, am an.   watermelon--> water melon”
“How would you find the power set of a set of numbers? Code it.”
“Make an algorithm that, having N cards in N+1 slots (one slot empty), reach a final configuration (given initial one), showing all the steps. A move is valid only if it is moving one card from to the empty spot (letting the card's place now empty).”
“Phone Interview:i) Find the number of inversions in an array (describe & code)ii) Find collinear points in a given set of 2D points (describe & code)”
“Onsite:Can't reveal the questions - signed NDA.The questions consisted of algorithm design, implementation. Designing solution to large problems and speaking them out/writing them out.Interviewers were nice. I was not good enough :)”
“How to manage to keep all operations (+ min) in a stack in O(1) and prove it!”
“How much ways is it possible to use to go on the top of stairs with n stairs if we can go up by 1 or 2 steps?”
“Design the Twitter.”
“Compress a given string.Input: aaaaabbcccOutput: a5b2c3”
“write a string splitting function that did not copy the string”
“How to build a distributed algorithm to compute the balance of the parathenses?”
“Check two leafs of graph connected or not, how we can optimize algo”
“Execute command on linux cluster”
“Bitwise shift right cyclic”
“Given a number N and a very large file containing natural numbers, find the N minimum numbers in this file.”
“Implement a class representing a shared resource which can be read by up to N readers or written by only one writer at the same time.”
“you have an array of stock prices. i-th element in that array represents the stock price of that day.  find the buy and sell dates to maximize profit.”
“words are given to you in "alphabetical" order (this is not the same as the usual a, b, c, d, ... order)find that order”
“What are the complexity characteristics of all the operations that you can perform on the data structures that you can think of?”
“Create a Java class that receives a collection of collections as parameter and provides basic iterator functions, that is next() and hasNext().The inner structure (collection of collections) must be hidden by the external interface. The next() method must thus iterate over all the elements of all the collections, starting with the next one if the current ends.”
“How would you sort an array of size N?”
“Take an array of numbers and replace each item with the product of all the other items in the array.”
“What's the difference between abstract and interface in Java”
“General stuff: e.g. what languages do you know? What is the percentage of your time that is devoted to coding”
“You are given a text file too large to fit in memory and 3 strings A, B, C. For each string, you have a sorted array listing the positions of the string in the file (e.g., inverted indices). Find the smallest window containing the 3 strings. Order of appearance does not matter.”
“1. Given a sorted array A[1..n] with n integers, and an integer t, find all pairs (x,y) of elements in A such that x+y is smaller than t.2. Can we do better if we seek (x,y) for which x+y=t?”
“It is a phone interview. Given a box of pencils with different colors, design an algorithm to find the duplicate pencils with the same color.”
“Many questions about advanced C++ language features such as solutions to the "diamond" multiple inheritance problem and how to implement a virtual constructor.”
“Also many questions about data structures, sorting algorithms, and program complexity (Big O).”
“Find a sequence with max sum in an array of negative and positive real numbers.”
“Remove a node from a singly linkedlist without knowing the head node. All you have is the node itself.”
“Find 3 numbers in an array adding up to a given sum S.”
“Sort a million 32 bit integers using only 2MB of RAM”
“If you had a list of appointments (each appointment has a begin time, an end time, and a boolean hasConflict), how would you efficiently go through them and set the hasConflict boolean for each. You cannot assume they are sorted in any way. Keep in mind that one appointment may be very long, etc.”
“the complexity of data structures, actual writing the sorting code on google doc.”
“What steps would you take to determine the source of a slow web site?”
“How do you find the median of  a set of numbers?”
“What are the issues with floating point calculation? For example, 1.0f + e-30, is there any issue with the statement.”
“How would you sort a file which is too large to fit in memory.”
“How would you restore /etc/passwd on a machine with a corrupt root disk which is only barely functioning. You have a shell and most unix shell commands, but no text editors.”
“Design a system to analyze huge log files”
“Find the least common root for 2 numbers in a BST”
“Write pseudo code for a Binary Search tree”
“Given a directory with lots of files, find the files that have the same content (the file names are different).I think file format is not considered, since when I said the size of the file with the same content should be the same, the interviewer did not deny it.”
“write a program to do carry out one of your favorite sorting algorithms”
“Partition an array in such way zeros to be moved on the left side of the array, other numbers on the right side of the array. Extra storage not allowed, only in-place.”
“write code to find the second shortest path between two given nodes in an undirected graph.”
“You're given a string, and you want to split it into as few strings as possible such that each string is a palindrome.”
“This is not a question from the day but gives you an idea of what to expect.Given an array of numbers and another number, work out whether the array of numbers can be manipulated using standard mathematical techniques to equal the other number given.  e.g. given 5 and 10, can you make 50? 5 * 10 = 50, so yes.”
“How would you sort an array of one millions integers?”
“How does an ethernet switch  route?”
“Questions related to data stuctures and algorithms.”
“Find the integer pairs in an integer array, so that they sum up to a specific number n.”
“An ambiguous design problem for which they expect the interviewee to fill-in/assume various parameters.”
“Write code to check the validity of a suduko square”
“Print all shortest paths in a grid (Cartesian), given the starting and the ending point.”
“How to delete the file "-f" with rm.”
“Someone can go up on stairs from one or two steps, how many different there is to go up on a stairs with n steps.”
“Write a C procedure to reverse a string in-place.”
“What are the argument of the main function in C.”
“Give the sizeof of the following struct :struct{char a,b;int c;}”
“Given 2 numbers x and y, check if x is an integer power of y. For instance, x = 8, y = 2 would return true and x = 10 and y = 2 would return false since the first one is an integer power but the second isn't.”
“Write an algorithm to test if n is power of 2”
“Write a regular expression to match a machine's MAC address”
“Describe the TCP handshake and some questions regarding low level TCP/IP protocol details.”
“How do you run a test of 1 million sample data?”
“(Without telling you the specific question,) estimate how many bits should I use for the hash key in your solution? Justify!”
“Given a dictionary of words, decrypt it using a given decrypt() function”
“Given a set of shapes in 2D space, and a coordinate pair, write a routine that returns true if any of the shapes overlap the coordinate pair.”
“An example questions was:If you had a days worth of queries, how would you sort the queries by the letter q, and then return a sufficiently random sample of 1000 queries. How do you ensure randomness?”
“Most questions were the typical, contrived algorithm problems, but a couple were more open-ended design questions.  There was one problem that involved graphs.  After giving a solution, they'll ask what the asymptotic complexity is, and how that can be improved.  I was also asked what test cases I would write against the solution.”
“Design an algorithm, which can record the largest number in an ever-upgrading sequence.”
“Reverse an sequence, or array”
“Given an array of numbers, replace each number with the product of all thenumbers in the array except the number itself *without* using division.”
“How to select a random sample of size K  from a stream of numbers.”
“A database table with no primary key, and you have two rows with exactly same data; now you want to delete one row; how you going to make sure it is deleting the second one not the first one or vice versa?”
“Find missing number in sum”
“Different ways of implementing”
“design back end for gmail”
“what is DMA”
“Given a file with a set of file names, write shell script to rename all these files.”
“Why am I meeting you?”
“How to choose pivot in quicksort”
“What happens when you enter a search query on google ? ideas about sorting results ?”
“How to efficiently sort a pivoted array”
“Reverse a linked list in place”
“Linked list and tree questions”
“some general OS questions and C++ question”
“What happens when you enter a URL in a browser? How does a DNS system work?”
“How will you determine two graphs are the same?”
“Something about reading a file of extreme size a chunk at a time, and search for the occurrence of a string in it. The focus was on describing the algorithm and data structures used.”
“What is the strategy pattern in Java?”
“Differences between two programming languages appearing in your CV (the interviewer chooses which ones)”
“I really don't want to confuse you people with the hard questions. Questions were ok if you know the basis and do programming on day to day basis then it's fine.”
“Given a statement which took an integer, incremented it by 1 and then branched to another location which you provide, implement addition of two numbers multiplication, etc using just that statement (or command).”
“Non programming. The mouse in the maze problem. Shortest paths to reach outside.”
“Given a web system which gets disconnected, how would you debug it. Also where would you add resources to maximise throughput given some constraints.”
“Reverse the bits in a 32 bit integer. Write C code for that.”
“There are n pots with different # gold coins in them. Two players play a game, where each player can select a pot at either ends. maximize the gold”
“Given a search terms, find the minimum window containing all the words”
“Given a grid that contains rectangles, write a function that will return all the rectangles that overlap with each other.”
“Implement a program to play the battleship game.”
“How would you test Goggle maps?”
“Write a function to return the number with the longest collatz sequence in a given range: int longestCollatz(int lower, int upper);”
“Write a function to return if a number is a palindrome (eg, 113848311)”
“Initial QuestionWrite a function in your language of choice to check if a given string matches a given pattern as a non-contiguous substring: that is, all the characters in the pattern appear in the text string in the same order, but possibly not all in a row.(eg: pwdp matches passwordparser.h and pwdafterpepper.cc)Continuation:How can this be made more efficient (so as you add to the search string, you don't have to redo the whole problem)?Continuation 2:How could results be sorted by relevance?”
“Suppose you have an arbitrarily connected graph with n nodes.  Come up with an algorithm to identify each set of connected nodes (i.e. identify all the islands in the graph).  What's the complexity?  Can you find a solution in O(n log n)?”
“Reverse the word order in a string.”
“Describe Bresenham's algorithm”
“Sort the entries in database in single pass?”
“Difference between C and C++”
“Define RIA”
“Prove that you can't build a random number generator function that will output numbers 1 to 7 with uniform distribution and guaranteed to work in finite time using a random number generator that outputs either 1 or 2 with equal probability.”
“How to test a browser?”
“You have all of the prices for a given stock for the next year. You can buy once and sell once in that year. How do you determine when to buy and sell to maximize your profit?”
“Implement a calendar system that identifies conflicts”
“Reverse bits of a digit”
“How would you implement Google spelling correction algorithms?”
“I was asked questions in the areas of data structures, graphs, and architectures.”
“Write an algorithm to sort and merge 2 LARGE data streams on a system where storage is essentially unlimited (but slow) and RAM is limited.”
“How would you write a program to detect memory segmentation faults?”
“what's wrong with the following code :<template type T >T accumulate ( vector<T>  in){   T total = in[0];   for (int i =0; i < in.length() ; i++) {      total = total + in[i];   }  return T}”
“Testing question”
“Coding question”
“How do you efficiently reverse the order of the words in a string?”
“Implement a method that matches an entire string with star wildcard pattern, e.g. returns true for ("*ogle", "Google"), but false for ("fragile*", "agile") - without using regular expression language support.”
“Given unsorted sequence of billions of numbers that cannot all fit in memory at the same time, find the median of these values.”
“Write a method that finds depth of a (non-balanced) binary tree.”
“Name the function of all the process signals you can think of.”
“What is the kernel call to get the inode information of a file?”
“Tell me everything you know about hash-tables.”
“What is the difference between gets and fgets and what is special about their buffers. (No you can look up man pages or get clues).”
“Name 20 things you would record in a webserver profiler”
“How would you sell Google Apps to someone who has invested in servers and computers and uses Offiice”
“Write a function that takes the ordinal number of a column in a spreadsheet and returns the label of that column: i.e. 1 -> A2 -> B, 26 -> Z, 27->AA”
“What is the use of the equals() and hashCode() methods in Java?”
“Implement the Iterator pattern with a class that will be constructed using two iterable objects and that will iterate through the elements of both objects”
“Convert decimal number 99 to base 7.”
“Give the descending order of the following 4 terms, assume that n is infinite. n!(n factorial), n^n, 2^n, n^(google)”
“can't disclose”
“Design an iterator for a collection of collections in java.  The iterator should hide the nesting, allowing you to iterate all of the elements belonging to all of the collections as if you were working with a single collection.”
“Design the back-end for facebook.”
“efficiently search for an input word in an unbounded dictionary.”
“a. Given a function double f(double x), 0<=x<=1, f(x) is increasing. f(0)<0, f(1)>0. Find x s.t. f(x)\approx 0.”
“Imagine dropping a Rubik's Cube into a bucket of paint. How many of the cubes will get paint on them?”
“Find the number f set bits in an integer”
“What is the fastest way to sort 1 million integers when integers are from the range [1,100]?”
“Lot of questions that I was not prepared for about obscure graph algorithms from one interviewer.”
“How would you count the frequency of letters in a word/ file?”
“How would you desing a web proxy?”
“Writing the code to convert numeric amount of price into English words.”
“finding the biggest sum of subset in an int array.”
“How do you determine the relevancy of search term within a document?”
“How would you test Google search?”
“Implement Queue based on a stack”
“Calculate the nth number of the fibonacci series”
“Network distribution problem.”
“Find the optimal map route between two points on a grid (maze) with some areas blocked out.”
“How would you analyze a video clip to determine if it was shot by an amateur or a professional?”
“Given you have a 2D binary raster represented as a bit array, how would you render a horizontal line?”
“Why have virtual destructors?”
“Given the pre-order and in-order traversing result of a binary tree, write a function to rebuild the tree.”
“How to reverse a tree”
“To diagnose why bandwidth was bad (hypothetically of course) between sites.  After a few obvious questions to ask I was stuck because that really wasn't my area.”
“How would you write a sort routine to ensure that identical elements in the input are maximally spread in the output?”
“How many rotations does earth make on its axis while going around the sun for one year.”
“"Design a utility similar to Google suggest. How can you do it?"”
“write a function to calculate X^N”
“Write a function that divides two numbers without using the divide '/' operator.”
“use mutex and semaphore to implement producer-consumer problem”
“There is a parking lot of cars that is full except for a single spot. Write some code to take it from one arbitrary configuration to another moving only one car at a time into the empty spot. Analyse the time complexity, how would you improve it, etc.”
“I had developed a large scale transactional system in the past. The questions, which were very insightful and well-thought out, revolved around a few edge cases in the system, and how we solved issues related to that.”
“You have a simple search consisting of search terms that are OR'ed together, ie: Cats AND Dogs.  You have a set of documents possibly containing those terms and you have the positions of those terms in each document.  How would you search for Cats AND Dogs?”
“why google?”
“what you like to go in google?”
“Given two arrays, print all common elements”
“Write a function in C/C++ that returns the number of zeros contained in the factorial of the number that is passed to it.”
“design algorithm to reverse the content in the memory.”
“Find the maximal and minimal number in an array of integers”
“Given a list, return the first pair of duplicates in the list.”
“Define an algorithm that converts a string to an integer without using a built in method like int()”
“I got the impression that interviewers are selected depending on what's on your resume. I was asked about heuristics on a specific intractable problem probably because my background included something related. You really need to know your stuff.”
“Interview questions are protected by non-disclosure agreement.”
“Given an array of integers where each element points to the index of the next element how would you detect if there is a cycle in this array?”
“How would you implement a stack to achieve constant time for "push", "pop" and "find mininum" operations?”
“How would you implement a singleton in the language of your choice?”
“How would you sort 10 million phone numbers?”
“General algorithm questions.  particularly focused on algorithmic complexity.  Know average and worst case time for operations on hash tables, trees, etc.  The questions are not puzzles and if you know your data structures, algorithms, etc, they aren't too hard.”
“There is an NxM grid containing a robot at (1, 1) and a destination at (N, M). Robot can move only up or right. Some locations can have obstacles. Find the number of unique paths from (1, 1) to (N, M). What is the time complexity of your algorithm?”
“You are given two sets of integers, sizes M and N with M < N. Perform inner equal join on these two sets (i.e., find intersection of the two lists). How to perform it if both the lists are in files and the available memory is of size K < M < N.”
“There is a museum organized as NxN room. Some rooms are locked and inaccessible. Other rooms are open and some rooms have guards. Guards can only move north, south, east and west, only through open rooms and only within the museum. For each room, find the shortest distance to a guard. What is the time complexity of your algorithm?”
“design a complete system to function just like the twitter.”
“Build Windows Minesweeper. Data structure, method to check state etc.”
“Find a loop in a linked list. How long is the loop?”
“Write a function Brackets(int n) that prints all combinations of well-formed  brackets. For Brackets(3) the output would be((()))  (()())  (())()  ()(())  ()()()”
“One independent survey showed that 70% on people asked like coffee.Another independent survey showed that 80% of people like tea.What is the upper and lower bound of peoples who likes both coffee and tea”
“Find shortest substring in a string that contains all of a set of characters.”
“Write a program to find depth of binary search tree without using recursion”
“Design and write a sudoku solver.”
“Given two strings (say string A, string B).Write a function that returns string A - string B.”
“For a n-node tree, you are given a left leaf node pointer and right leaf node pointer. Write a function to find the number of nodes between the leaves pointed by the left and the right pointer.”
“Question about scalability:How would you sort a huge file - one that can not fit in memory?”
“In-place string reversal.”
“write a sql query to find all 2nd (and then 3rd) level manager from a tabel employee with name, id (pk) and managerid.”
“How to replace a string in a templatized string where each placeholder starts with a specific delimiter,you are given a map that maps the placeholders to associated values.”
“Quad tree bitmap: describe data structure and an algorithm”
“Implement the overlap  area of two rectangles.”
“I can't reveal specific questions, but knowledge of basic graph and tree algorithms was very helpful.”
“Find the perfect numbers between 1 and 1M, details in my interview description.”
“Find if a binary tree is the sub-tree of another.”
“Hardest things to unit test”
“Intersection of two numerical arrays”
“Given a set of integers find if two elements sum to a given value.”
“Given a picture of a skip list data structure, implement the algorithm to maintain skip lists (add, search, delete).”
“Giving n numbers, and one number s, find out whether there are two numbers form the n numbers sums up to the number s. Finding one solution is extremely easy, but what's required is to find out ALL solutions to the problem and analyse the run times.”
“They were all C++ questions. find mean, find page rank, find intersection, then OO and design questions”
“- maximum sum of any continuous subsequence  in an array of signed integerswhats the complexity.- program to compute fibonacci sequence..standard recursive and more efficent iterative one.. algorithmic complexity of both.”
“Write algorithm to compute a Log to the base 2 of a number (integral results no need for floating point). Solution should not assume a particular size of integer”
“Implement a base 3 adder which takes two strings as input and returns a string”
“talk about 1s complement and 2s complement representation”
“Difference between arithmetic and logical shift”
“I have superclass A and subclass B of superclass A. B overrides a function foo() in A. I have an instance of class B. How do I call foo() but using class A's version”
“How do you check if a URL is bad really fast in Google server. The point is for the user not to notice the lag in the checking”
“Find a repeated number in a list of numbers”
“Write a function the generate Fibonacci sequence”
“What is the most challenging problem you have ever solved?”
“I was asked to determine whether two nodes were connected in a graph.”
“Write the code which use hash_map in C++”
“Assume a matrix of integers they are sorted in boh row and column vice .. how do u find a given number from the matrix in a optimal way?”
“Explain the steps involved from entering a web site address to the page being displayed on your browser. How can the process be speeded up.”
“Write an algorithm to calculate n factorial”
“What happens when you type www.google.com in your browser?”
“What are the things part of HTTP request?”
“Write a function for -- Given a URL which has url-encoded name-values and a variable, return the value for it.Now modify the function to handle when the name appears multiple times.”
“How are headers and body seperated in a HTTP request?”
“design a structure have these two functions: insert, getMedian, discuss the time complexity”
“Something to do Normalization and De-Normalization, Lot of coding, Lot of testing question for the code that you write etc.”
“Sample uniformly on a circle centered at zero with radius 1.”
“Write code to check whether every element of an array has been visited (you are given a starting position and each position stores a pointer to a subsequent position)”
“Try to figure out the top unique search queries from a database with 100 billion entries”
“Hash table, binary search tree,...”
“You have a genealogy:1) Describe a data structure to represent it.2) Given any two people within the genealogy, describe an algorithm to determine if they share a common ancestor. You just need to return true/false, not all  ancestors.”
“Create a binary tree based on a sorted array”
“Print mth to last elements of the linkedlist”
“assume you are writing number in ascending order  to an array of constant size. once you reach the end of the array, you start writing from the beginning, thus writing over the oldest entries.write an algorithm for finding a specific number in this array.”
“What was the most challenging aspect of your previous job?”
“What is an RTOS? How different is it from a conventional OS”
“you have a sequence where each number is a multiple of 2 or 5 (so: 2^i * 5^j).  he gave the beginning of the sequence as 1,2,3,4,5,8,10,16... and asked me to find an algorithm to calculate the next number in the sequence.”
“Write a class that iterates through a list of lists with methods next and hasNext.  Next returns the next item in the list, and hasNext returns True or False depending on whether or not we are at the end of the list.Example:i = Iterator([[1, 2], [3, 4]])i.next() returns 1i.next() returns 2i.hasNext() returns Truei.next() returns 3i.next() returns 4i.hasNext returns False”
“which 2 datastructures will you use to design a  dictionary .”
“Really can not disclose any questions due to NDA. But a hint!  Heap DataStructure is more important than most of us think of!”
“Given an unlimited stream of input, output the median value at any moment.”
“Describe an in-order binary search tree traversal.”
“trickier question, code a method given the following method signature that will print out any numbers that intersect both arrays of numbers//Example arrays// 4, 18, 25, 40, 411// 20, 25, 40, 320, 1009, 1100void intersect(int[] arr1, int len1, int[] arr2, int len2) {”
“Easier questions1) Two variations of a program exist, A and B.  When run on machine 1, A runstwice as fast as B.  When run on machine 2, A runs 10x as fast as B.  How wouldyou investigate this?-same datasets-same versions of OS and libraries-same hardware2) Had to code a method that calculated the factorial, first simply, then a second one recursively.”
“What was the most challenging issue/bug you came across and how did you resolve it?”
“Give 2 coding solutions on returning an array by removing duplicates.  One solution with O(n^2) and the other Linear.”
“Describe the implementation (along with data structures) involved in making a program that:1. inserts a number2. returns the median of all unique numbers”
“Describe the design and implementation of a Tic Tac Toe game.”
“Develop a solution to convex hull and state its complexity.”
“a very long single linked list, how to find the n-th entry from the end.”
“Millions of cache entries, each with a unique key, stored in several servers. how to sort all entries whose key falls within a specified range using Map Reduce? What if one server has a very small range of keys (say 1 to 100) and another server has a very large range of keys (say 100 to 1000000)? Sorry I don't remember the answer.”
“DB questions like normal forms, inner join and outer join concepts, which I didn't prepare at all.Be prepared!”
“Write an iterator over multiple collections.”
“If I had unlimited resources, what computer program would I make?”
“Talk about how to implement a function that multiplies a pixel color by RGB percentages.  How could this be optimized if the RGB percentages where const for an entire image.”
“What cool things did you do in your previous job. Basically the interviewer wants to know if there can be a good fit between me and the team.”
“Give us an example where you solved and handled some complex issue in current project”
“Base class has one method takes argument as Object and inherited class overrides it to pass String as parameter.If called with argument of Object whcih method will be called”
“How would you find maximum element in a  list of items whcih implements comparator.”
“how would you find maximum element in an array of numbers.”
“Difference between function overloading and overriding.”
“Find if there are two members of an array that sum to 10 (10 and 0 count, but 10 alone does not).”
“Design and implement a garbage collection algorithm in any programming language. also needed to give out run time analysis.”
“BST running time (creation/updating/traversal)”
“Design a system to find all Googlewhacks and analyze its efficiency in terms of memory, storage, and run time, and its scalability characteristics.”
“How to implement a queue simply using two stacks and how to implement a highly efficient queue using two stacks.”
“Calculating the max execution time of a program that had to fit into a certain size of memory on an embedded device.”
“Implement a function, F(int n) to calculate the nth Fibonacci number.”
“Why do you want to change your job?”
“You're writing an application that receives a stream of individual items of data.  The stream may be very long or very short, but you have no way of knowing how long it is (i.e. there's no trick to figuring out the size of the stream of data).  How would you go about choosing m items such that any subset of m items was equally likely?  (Not an even distribution of values, but just that any m items are equally likely to be chosen).  So for example, m=1000, and the number of items in the stream, n, may be 1000, or 10000, or 100000000, or much much larger; there is no way to know how many.”
“You're given a binary tree and pointers to two nodes in the tree.  Describe the fastest algorithm you can come up with to determine the closest common ancestor.”
“Given an integer, write a c++ code that would count the number of bit positions that are set (1's)? What is the time complexity of your algorithm?Assume you were asked to improve it such that you would get the results instantaneously. What would you do?”
“How would you implement a stack with the additional operation of getMin?”
“Write ArrayList in Java.”
“Given a string and a list of character mappings of the form (a=>j,k), (d=>r), (t=>r,q,e,y), print out all the possible variants by applying the mapping to the original string.example:string="foo", mappings = "o=>1,2", "k=>d,l,w"output:foofo1fo2f1of11f12f2of21f22”
“Given a stream of integers of unknown (possibly large) length, how would you pick one at random? Now prove its random.”
“Define binary search tree. Develop a procedure to verify a binary search tree.”
“Write a function to find intersection of 2 sorted arrays.”
“Given this Google product, how would you address this technical challenge? What kinds of algorithms would you use?”
“an algo question”
“Design a software library to implement a histogram.”
“You are a parking lot attendant in a lot that has one open spot, and you want to move the cars from their original positions into a new arrangement. Create a program that will print out instructions on how to move the cars most efficiently.”
“Find the lowest common ancestor for BST”
“How many golf balls can fit in a school bus?”
“I was asked a question about the following. If a user types in a n digit number on the telephone, how do you write a function to deduce if the number constitutes a valid word. For example, if the user enters 123, then can a valid word be made out of (a/b/c) + (d/e/f) + (g/h/i)”
“What is the relationship between equals(Object o) and hashCode() in Java? How would you implement each method?”
“Describe a current project. What was challenging about it? What did you learn from it?”
“How would you design Solitaire?”
“Design and describe a system/application that will most efficiently produce a report of the top 1 million Google search requests. You are given:You are given 12 servers to work with. They are all dual-processor machines with 4Gb of RAM, 4x400GB hard drives and networked together.(Basically, nothing more than high-end PC's)The log data has already been cleaned for you. It consists of 100 Billion log lines, broken down into 12 320 GB files of 40-byte search terms per line.You can use only custom written applications or available free open-source software.”
“What is your favorite data structure? What opertions does it have? [Then some detailed questions about the algorithms based on this data structure]”
“Given a list of iterator, write an wrapper iterator that can iterator thru all the iterators in the list”
“Describe how you would reverse a single linked list.”
“You have a bag of random numbers which can be negative, positive or zero, and it might contain duplicates. Describe an algorithm for finding all pairs whose sum equals some value m.”
“Implement an LRU cache.”
“Implement an Array iterator.”
“How do you delete a given node from a single linked list?”
“How would you find the most searched for phrase in Google, assuming that you could use 10000 computer in parallel?”
“Implement a random number generator such that the random number generated is always in a particular range. Perform through time complexity analysis of it. How would you improve the solution.”
“A quad tree is used to represent a black/white image. If you are provided with two such image representations, write a function to create a third tree that represents the merged image. (Black overrides white, mixed; mixed overrides white)”
“I am playing a card game called 24. Cards ace to king are numbered 1 to 13. During a given round, I am provided four cards to play with from the shuffled pack. If the numbers from the four cards result in 24 then I win the round if I shout '24' first. How would you code a function for this?”
“find the intersection of two integer arrays in increasing order.”
“Given the list of points of the skyline of a city in order (from East to West) Find the maximal rectangle contained in this skyline. I was asked to write the code. I managed to find the algorithm but was not sufficient.”
“-Object-oriented Design question-Binary tree coding question-Sorting question-STL vector question-A few others (cannot reveal due to NDA)”
“- What is the complexity of quicksort?- Unfortunately I cannot publish more questions (NDA)”
“- What is 2^12?- Past experiences- Trivia- Unfortunately I cannot publish more questions (NDA)”
“Onsite Interview 4 a): Breadth first Search related graph questionb) Additional graph question related to finding a subgraph with some API specified , needed to extend the prior solution.c) Question on C/C++ Static Modifier , relation of it to Java.”
“Onsite Interview 3 a): write a program to find whether a list of integers has a pair whose sum is equal to a give number . More constraints added , negative numbers , duplicates , needed to optimize and even prove worst cast performance .b) Networking question of Sliding Window over udp.”
“Onsite Interview 2 a): check whether a number is the power of 2b) Skyline silhouette puzzle .c) Discussion on uses of hash-tables and trees ?d) Few general questions on Work and academic background .”
“Onsite Interview 1 a): Write a program to check whether  a number is prime . Additional constraints consider negative primes etc.b) some kind of list merge problemA list of lists eg : [A,B,C] // unsortedA= [1,2,3]B=[2,3]C=[1,2]Start with List in reverse alphabetical ordereg:C merge with B removing duplicates then merge this with A doing the same .Optimize solutionc) Intersection of two Integer lists ?”
“Phone interview 1 : a) Simulate a Queue with stacks ?b)Find repeated occurrence of character in a string ?Phone interview 2 : a) Given a 2D matrix of numbers find the position  of  number . Constraints of matrix number always in increasing order left to right and top to bottom .b)When should version control  be used . And a tricky discreet math problem ?”
“Write a program the generates the power set of a set of numbers”
“I had questions about collections in Java and memory management questions in C.”
“Develop an algorithm for finding the shortest distance between two words in a document.  After the phone interview is over, take a few hours to develop a working example in C++ and send it to the manager.”
“* You have a data structure of integers, which can be negative, zero, or positive, and you need to support an API with two public methods, insert(int) and getmedian(). Describe a data structure you would use to support this API and describe the running time of the two methods.* Imagine you're writing a function that takes an array of integers and an integer and it needs to return true if any pair in the array sum to the 2nd argument. The array can have negative numbers, zero, or positive numbers. Describe how you would design this function and what its running time would be. I ran through the trivial n^2 solution, then modified it to an nlogn and finally to a linear solution.”
“* Describe the design of a most-recently-used list, such as the "Recent Files" menu in Microsoft Word. It has two public methods, getlist() and access(str), which retrieve the list and mark an item as accessed, respectively. The list has a maximum number of items it can hold, say 5, and it should not have duplicates. Describe the data structure used and the running time of both public methods.”
“* Write a function, preferably in C or C++, to reverse a string.”
“* Describe preorder, inorder, postorder.”
“* Describe a balanced binary tree.* When would you want to use a balanced tree rather than a hashmap?”
“Pick any Google product and tell me how you would improve it”
“question on design patterns”
“explanation of ph.d. research”
“What percentage of the time are you coding and in what language?”
“Are there any particular projects or areas that you would enjoy working on at Google?”
“The implementation question: Find a max and min in an array simaltaneously. I used a 2n comparisons approach and a 1.5n on-average approach.”
“There were 2 questions: 1 design and 1 implementation. The design was something like the following: you have a billion google searches a day, design a data structure which lets you pull out the top 100 unique ones at the end of the day.”
“What's your favorite programming language?  Talk to me about it.”
“What is http?”
“Concurrency, Multithreading”
“The Game of Nim worded diffently.”
“NDA; don't want to comment.  In general, be prepared to divide and conquer in every way possible.  Also, dynamic programming would be a good subject of study.”
“Given two linked lists, return the intersection of the two lists: i.e. return a list containing only the elements that occur in both of the input lists.”
“Given an array whose elements are sorted, return the index of a the first occurrence of a specific integer. Do this in sub-linear time. I.e. do not just go through each element searching for that element.”
“What's the difference between a hashtable and a hashmap?”
“Name some types of Java collection classes.”
“If a person dials a sequence of numbers on the telephone, what possible words/strings can be formed from the letters associated with those numbers?”
“Write a program to find depth of binary search tree without using recursion”
“Given an array of integers which is circularly sorted, how do you find a given integer.”
“Implement on a board a shortest path algorithm when traveling from point A to point B on a board. Once you produce a solution, they throw modifications to an initial problem like what if you know that points x, y, z cannot be used in a path.”
“Most phones now have full keyboards. Before there there three letters mapped to a number button. Describe how you would go about implementing spelling and word suggestions as people type.”
“The question was the following. I'm rephrasing the question to make it clear for everyone to understand:- You are going on a one-way flight trip that includes billions of layovers.- You have 1 ticket for each part of your trip (i.e: if your trip is from city A to city C with a layover in city B, then you will have 1 flight ticket from city A to city B, and 1 flight ticket from city B to city C.- Each layover is unique. You are not stopping twice in the same city.- You forgot the original departure city.- You forgot the final destination city.- All the tickets you have are randomly sorted.Question are:- Design an algorithm to reconstruct your trip with minimum complexity.- How would you improve your algorithm.Example:- randomly sorted:New York->LondonSan Francisco-> Hong KongParis->New YorkLondon->San Francisco- sorted:Paris->New YorkNew York->LondonLondon->San FranciscoSan Francisco-> Hong Kong”
“Which wireless channel should you choose for you home wifi, considering there is no interference on any of them.”
“Create a data structure for LFU cache”
“Create a cache with fast look up that only stores the N most recently accessed items.”
“Explain the difference between Array Lists, Linked Lists, Vectors, Hash Maps, (from Java's JDK) etc. and when one choice is better of another.”
“Create a stack of numbers where the maximum number is always known.”
“Given an array of numbers, replace each number with the product of all the numbers in the array except the number itself *without* using division.”
“How to design a search engine? If each document contains a set of keywords, and is associated with a numeric attribute, how to build indices?”
“Given two files that has list of words (one per line), write a program to show the intersection.”
“That's all good and correct.  Now, assume that the computers you are given have only 1 MB of memory each.  How would you solve the same problem using the same number of machines?”
“Please tell us about a personal challenge you had with someone who managed you?”
“Please tell us about the most satisfying project you worked on in the last year?”
“Stuff with string manipulation.”
“given x2 + y 2 = z2find numbers which are consecutivefor example: 3 + 4 = 5”
“what's the your favorite sorting algorithm and explain why?”
“Look for a string in a very long string - a needle in a haystack. Write the program in pseudo-code.”
“Pets+------------------+--------------+------+-----+---------+----------------+| Field            | Type         | Null | Key | Default | Extra          |+------------------+--------------+------+-----+---------+----------------+| id               | int(11)      | NO   | PRI | NULL    | auto_increment || breed            | varchar(255) | NO   |     | NULL    |                || acquisition_date | datetime     | NO   |     | NULL    |                |+------------------+--------------+------+-----+---------+----------------+Customers+-------+--------------+------+-----+---------+----------------+| Field | Type         | Null | Key | Default | Extra          |+-------+--------------+------+-----+---------+----------------+| id    | int(11)      | NO   | PRI | NULL    | auto_increment || name  | varchar(255) | NO   |     | NULL    |                |+-------+--------------+------+-----+---------+----------------+Sales+-------------+----------+------+-----+---------+-------+| Field       | Type     | Null | Key | Default | Extra |+-------------+----------+------+-----+---------+-------+| customer_id | int(11)  | NO   | PRI | NULL    |       || pet_id      | int(11)  | NO   | PRI | NULL    |       || date        | datetime | NO   |     | NULL    |       |+-------------+----------+------+-----+---------+-------+Q1 How many pets of each breed has the shop ever owned?”
“If you want to distribute a large file (gigabytes) in a large (100+ machines) park how do you do it?”
“What would you like to work on in Google?”
“integer partiontioinggiven N (a integer)how many ways you can write as N summation of other numbers5 = 1+ 2 +2 = 2+ 2 + 1 = 1 + 3 +1 = 1 + 4 etc..write C code to print every combination”
“What kind of data structure would you use to index annagrams of words? e.g. if there exists the word "top" in the database, the query for "pot" should list that...”
“This is an open ended question?How would you differentiate the same keywords in different contexts? For example, how can a search engine understand which of them represent the hotel brand name and which of them represent the celebrity, if a user searches for "Hilton"?”
“Tell me all about yourself.”
“Write the code to determine if a 2D point is inside a 2D closed polygon.”
“Describe the process (including some code) on how to create a user identifier that could be passed between websites, that could not be spoofed or easily stolen”
“What sort would you use if you required tight max time bounds and wanted highly regular performance.”
“What sort would you use if you had a large data set on disk and a small amount of ram to work with?”
“How would you determine if someone has won a game of tic-tac-toe on a board of any size?”
“Design a data structure for LRU cache”
“Come out with an algorithm for getting the column number provided the column name in a excel sheet and vice versa. Excel has a naming convention of A,B..Z,AA,AB,AC..ZZ,AAA... This had to be converted to the column numbers. A will be 1 and AA will 27.. Also the algorithm to find the name provided column number.”
“Design an algorithm to play a game of Frogger and then code the solution.  The object of the game is to direct a frog to avoid cars while crossing a busy road. You may represent a road lane via an array.  Generalize the solution for an N-lane road.”
“Create a fast cached storage mechanism that, given a limitation on the amount of cache memory, will ensure that only the least recently used items are discarded when the cache memory is reached when inserting a new item.  It supports 2 functions: String get(T t) and void put(String k, T t).”
“Create a cost model that allows Google to make purchasing decisions on to compare the cost of purchasing more RAM memory for their servers vs. buying more disk space.”
“A question on graphs and their use for optimally sorting fictitious coins from another country.”
“You have a database with employees and their hierarquies. Construct an SQL statement to associate each employee with their supervisor.”
“Design a function which returns the number of set bits in a given number, when expressed in binary”
“Implement a binary tree and explain it's function”
“How would you store 1 million phone numbers?”
“They asked me not to share detailed interview questions, but I'll say it was a question about searching and sorting a list.  And how to make it faster.  And then even faster.”
“Implement a skip list traversal routine.  Algorithmic complexity of traversal.  Algorithm for converting uniformly distributed random numbers into a logarithmic distribution.”
“Something about poker, or baseball season, or some other game that I was not familiar with enough to reason about.”
“Design a 2D dungeon crawling game.  It must allow for various items in the maze - walls, objects, and computer-controlled characters.  (The focus was on the class structures, and how to optimize the experience for the user as s/he travels through the dungeon.)”
“Design a web search engine that searches web locations for anagrams of a given string.”
