Yahoo Software Engineer Interview Questions:
“What is agile development?”
“what are inline functions?”
“How do you switch values of variables A and B without using a third variable for storage?”
“They might open up a site that has some interesting javascript, and using standard dev tools, take a look at the source code. Then you have to play with the javascript console to accomplish certain simple tasks on the page.”
“Code up a chess game (OOD question)”
“Write a script to login into yahoo mail and display the number of new messages. The script should also take care of alerting the user when ever a new message is received.”
“Explain BFS/DFS.”
“There are 49 horses of which you need to find the 25th fastest horse.At a time you can race 7 horses.How many number of races are required to find the 25th fastest horse? After each race,we know which is first and which is second but dont know the speed.That makes more sense)Hint - Consider the significance of 25 (24 horses r faster than this horse and 24 are slower)”
“Write a program to count the number of leaves in a binary tree.”
“Write a program to find inorder successor of a node in a binary tree.You are given the root node and the node to which you need to find the inorder successor”
“Fix a URL matching program written by a junior engineer that takes 4 weeks to output the number of URLs from a set of 100 billion that match a known set of 1 billion URLs. The 1 billion URLs are stored on disk, the machine has 1GB of RAM, and the 100B set is arriving over the network. How to make it take only 4 days?”
“Find the prime numbers less than 10,000 using dynamic programming.”
“epoll vs select vs poll”
“http internals.”
“Serialize binary tree”
“Find the most weighted node in weighted binary tree.”
“Find LCA in binary tree.”
“1) Write merge function to merge 2 arrays into single array.2) Find the length of linked list loop.3) How to get the values of two elements from array whose sum is N.2nd round :1) Get nth largest/smallest from BST.2) How will you remove duplicate paragraph from big file.    Told hashmap, asked me to write hashcode :-(3) Perform merge of multiple arrays.  (k way merge)    Thought for sometime, but could not tell. :-(3rd round :1) Middle of linked list2) sum in binary search tree3) Some unix questions.4) How will u design Google maps or yahoo maps.4th Round :Puzzle on 25 horses.”
“Binary Trees and usage - insertion, traversal ...”
“Discussion and usage of strategy and command patterns.”
“the order of java qualifiers”
“What are the major accomplishments/contributions in your work over the last few years?”
“Which of Yahoo!'s products do you see your work contributing to?”
“Design a BPO (call center)?”
“Implement a Hash table?”
“Describe the difference between GROUP BY and ORDER BY”
“Design a hotel class”
“Give an implementation of Moon in the solar system”
“Why constructors dont return any value. What problem did Java face in returning a value from Constructors ?”
“What are some of the good approaches to search for a string (pattern) in a list of files?”
“There was a question about performing shifts on a string, sorting all outputs lexicographically, and then trying to recover the input string based on the last column of the table made up of the rows of sorted strings.”
“Reverse string”
“Implement B+ tree”
“How to reverse the linked list”
“Design and aircraft landing system.”
“Would you rather have strictly defined tasks or a more open space to define your work?”
“Merge two sorted arrays of integer”
“java, sql questions”
“1. insert a node into a sorted linked list.”
“implement calculator describing how to represent the different symbols, hold them in memory, and perform the right order of operations”
“Write an algorithm to find the middle node of a singly-linked list.”
“insert/delete linked listmerge 2 sorted integer array into onewhat is page table, virtual memory, schema. what related web experience you had.design a garage, what is singleton”
“Design a data structure to store sparse 2D matrix which contains only 0 or 1. then write function to add 2 such matrix.”
“How would you implement hash function for <some question>”
“What is the most efficient way to swap the numbers from left to right? For example: 1234567 if giving the k = 3, the result should be 4567123.”
“Did you get along with your peers?”
“How would describe yourself?”
“Different kind of resource leaks in Java?”
“Bubble sorting and other sorting algorithm.”
“Reverse llinked list questions was asked.”
“Write the regular expression for the 10-digit phone numbers in the United States.”
“How would you design an elevator?”
“explain how to search for particular word in a large text file”
“Time complexicity of heap sort”
“How do you make sure a bean in the application is spring bean”
“Write a program to parse a tree and find the depth of the tree”
“What re the various phases and components of a Web architecture?”
“How do you ensure the performace and optimization is met with respect to the work you are doing?”
“How can you write a Singleton Class in C++”
“In JavaScript, what is innerHTML and what do you use it for?”
“Do you know what big O notation is?”
“What is a design pattern?  Name and describe one or two design patterns.”
“What is a Java interface and how does implements differ from extends?”
“What is a static method in Java and how does it differ from a non-static method?”
“write a program that finds all repeated substrings in the string and provide the complexity of this program.  how can you make it to perform better in time and memory?”
“Given an array of integers, find number with max frequency.”
“Dining philosophers problem.”
“Explain polymorphism in detail.”
“Difference between macros and inline functions.”
“How would you fight spam on a site like Flickr.”
“Write logic & template code for a Flickr sets webpage. Explain possible scalability issues.”
“How do you chmod a file to be executable if the chmod command itself isn't executable?”
“Suppose we have a giant table in MySQL. Write an effective way to select 20 random rows from the table.”
“Write a regular expression for telephone numbers”
“Design a game of game i.e. at least object oriented design for the game...”
“Implement the 8 queens problem”
“How to find the longest non-descent sub series from a series.”
“What is a Copy Constructor, Virtual functions, destructor etc.”
“What is a closure?”
“Can you think of a browser rendering problem you had with IE?”
“Design patterns that would be used in a card game. Not objects and classes but design patterns.”
“Design a singleton to return an object for each of the thread”
“None.. All questions were simple. Reverse a linked list, find a duplicate node in the linked list, etc”
“benefits of object orientation? Why object orientation? Expect very specific responses.”
“Exception handling in C++, object splicing, and stack unwinding.”
“Design patterns - names of the specific patterns, and their abstraction and their higher level groupings, names etc.”
“what is your experience on Hudson”
“How would you find every node with a specific title in this XML structure not using XPath”
“Please write a database abstraction layer using object oriented methods.”
“machine learning problems, and multi-threading concurrency”
“Did you have a chance to hit the beach before the interview? :)”
“Linux platform specific questions: What exact error is thrown when access violations happen?”
“why should i not hire you”
“remove the node from the single linked list having only pointer to that node”
“How to determine whether the stack grows up or down?”
“Explain all traversal types of Binary tree”
“Write a routine to reverse a string and then reverse only the individual words in the same string using the routine.”
“tell me "anything" about "any" project.”
“booster code in C : working example”
“If you were designing a database for a bank, where data fidelity was extremely important, how would you make sure that withdrawals and deposits work correctly.”
